
[1] Antonio Acquavia, Craig Macdonald, and Nicola Tonellotto. Static pruning for multi-representation dense retrieval. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Document Engineering 2023, pages 1–10, 2023.   
[2] Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan Majumder, Andrew McNamara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Alina Stoica, Saurabh Tiwary, and Tong Wang. Ms marco: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset. In Proc. InCoCo@NIPS, 2016.   
[3] Soyuj Basnet, Jerry Gou, Antonio Mallia, and Torsten Suel. Deeperimpact: Optimizing sparse learned index structures. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.17093, 2024.   
[4] Benjamin Clavié, Antoine Chaffin, and Griffin Adams. Reducing the footprint of multi-vector retrieval with minimal performance impact via token pooling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.14683, 2024.   
[5] Nick Craswell, Bhaskar Mitra, Daniel Campos, and Emine Yilmaz. Overview of the TREC 2019 Deep Learning Track. In Proc. TREC 2019, 2020.   
[6] Nick Craswell, Bhaskar Mitra, Emine Yilmaz, and Daniel Campos. Overview of the trec 2020 deep learning track. In Proc. TREC 2020, 2021.   
[7] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In Proc. NAACL, 2019.   
[8] Laxman Dhulipala, Majid Hadian, Rajesh Jayaram, Jason Lee, and Vahab Mirrokni. Muvera: Multi-vector retrieval via fixed dimensional encodings. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.19504, 2024.   
[9] Thibault Formal, Benjamin Piwowarski, and Stéphane Clinchant. A white box analysis of colbert. In Proc. ECIR, pages 257–263, 2021.   
[10] Sebastian Hofstätter and Allan Hanbury. Let’s measure run time! Extending the IR replicability infrastructure to include performance aspects. In OSIRRC@SIGIR, 2019.   
[11] Sebastian Hofstätter, Sophia Althammer, Michael Schröder, Mete Sertkan, and Allan Hanbury. Improving efficient neural ranking models with crossarchitecture knowledge distillation, 2020.   
[12] J. Johnson, M. Douze, and H. Jegou. Billion-scale similarity search with gpus. IEEE Trans. Big Data, 7(03):535–547, 2021. ISSN 2332-7790.   
[13] Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. ColBERT: Efficient and Effective Passage Search via Contextualized Late Interaction over BERT. In Proc. SI-GIR, page 39–48, 2020.   
[14] Carlos Lassance and Stéphane Clinchant. An efficiency study for splade models. In Proceedings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 2220–2226, 2022.   
[15] Jinhyuk Lee, Zhuyun Dai, Sai Meher Karthik Duddu, Tao Lei, Iftekhar Naim, Ming-Wei Chang, and Vincent Zhao. Rethinking the role of token retrieval in multi-vector retrieval. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.   
[16] Jimmy Lin, Rodrigo Nogueira, and Andrew Yates. Pretrained Transformers for Text Ranking: BERT and Beyond. Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2021.   
[17] Sean MacAvaney and Nicola Tonellotto. A reproducibility study of plaid. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 1411–1419, 2024.   
[18] Craig Macdonald, Nicola Tonellotto, and Iadh Ounis. On single and multiple representations in dense passage retrieval. In Proc. IIR, 2021.   
[19] Antonio Mallia, Omar Khattab, Torsten Suel, and Nicola Tonellotto. Learning passage impacts for inverted indexes. In Proceedings of the 44th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 1723–1727, 2021.   
[20] Antonio Mallia, Torsten Suel, and Nicola Tonellotto. Faster learned sparse retrieval with block-max pruning. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 2411–2415, 2024.   
[21] Keshav Santhanam, Omar Khattab, Jon Saad-Falcon, Christopher Potts, and Matei Zaharia. Colbertv2: Effective and efficient retrieval via lightweight late interaction. CoRR, abs/2112.01488, 2021.   
[22] Keshav Santhanam, Omar Khattab, Christopher Potts, and Matei Zaharia. Plaid: an efficient engine for late interaction retrieval. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management, pages 1747–1756, 2022.   
[23] Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. BEIR: A heterogeneous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval models. In Proc. NeurIPS, 2021.   
[24] Xiao Wang, Craig Macdonald, and Iadh Ounis. Improving zero-shot retrieval using dense external expansion. Information Processing & Management, 59(5):103026, 2022. ISSN 0306-4573. https://doi.org/ https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2022.103026. URL https://www. sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457322001364.   
[25] Xiao Wang, Craig Macdonald, Nicola Tonellotto, and Iadh Ounis. Reproducibility, replicability, and insights into dense multi-representation retrieval models: from colbert to col. In Hsin-Hsi Chen, Wei-Jou (Edward) Duh, Hen-Hsen Huang, Makoto P. Kato, Josiane Mothe, and Barbara Poblete, editors, Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, SI-GIR 2023, Taipei, Taiwan, July 23-27, 2023, pages 2552–2561. ACM, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1145/3539618.3591916. URL https://doi.org/ 10.1145/3539618.3591916.   
[26] Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Yingxia Shao, and Zhao Cao. Retromae: Pretraining retrieval-oriented language models via masked auto-encoder. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.12035, 2022.   
[27] Hamed Zamani, Mostafa Dehghani, W. Bruce Croft, Erik Learned-Miller, and Jaap Kamps. From neural re-ranking to neural ranking: Learning a sparse representation for inverted indexing. In Proc. CIKM, pages 497–506, 2018.
