[1] Fabien André, Anne-Marie Kermarrec, and Nicolas Le Scouarnec. 2016. Cache locality is not enough: High-performance nearest neighbor search with product quantization fast scan. In 42nd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, Vol. 9. 12.   
[2] Sunil Arya and David M Mount. 1993. Approximate nearest neighbor queries in fixed dimensions.. In SODA, Vol. 93. Citeseer, 271–280.   
[3] Martin Aumüller, Erik Bernhardsson, and Alexander Faithfull. 2020. ANN-Benchmarks: A Benchmarking Tool for Approximate Nearest Neighbor Algorithms. Inf. Syst. 87, C (jan 2020), 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2019.02.006   
[4] Martin Aumüller and Matteo Ceccarello. 2023. Recent Approaches and Trends in Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search, with Remarks on Benchmarking. Data Engineering (2023), 89.   
[5] Artem Babenko and Victor Lempitsky. 2014. Additive quantization for extreme vector compression. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 931–938.   
[6] Artem Babenko and Victor Lempitsky. 2014. The inverted multi-index. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 37, 6 (2014), 1247–1260.   
[7] Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Walter Cunto, Udi Manber, and Sun Wu. 1994. Proximity matching using fixed-queries trees. In Combinatorial Pattern Matching: 5th Annual Symposium, CPM 94 Asilomar, CA, USA, June 5–8, 1994 Proceedings 5. Springer, 198–212.   
[8] Alina Beygelzimer, Sham Kakade, and John Langford. 2006. Cover trees for nearest neighbor. In Proceedings of the 23rd international conference on Machine learning. 97–104.   
[9] Walter A. Burkhard and Robert M. Keller. 1973. Some approaches to best-match file searching. Commun. ACM 16, 4 (1973), 230–236.   
[10] Domenico Cantone, Alfredo Ferro, Alfredo Pulvirenti, Diego Reforgiato Recupero, and Dennis Shasha. 2005. Antipole tree indexing to support range search and k-nearest neighbor search in metric spaces. IEEE transactions on knowledge and data engineering 17, 4 (2005), 535–550.   
[11] Edgar Chavez, Stefan Dobrev, Evangelos Kranakis, Jaroslav Opatrny, Ladislav Stacho, Héctor Tejeda, and Jorge Urrutia. 2006. Half-space proximal: A new local test for extracting a bounded dilation spanner of a unit disk graph. In Principles of Distributed Systems: 9th International Conference, OPODIS 2005, Pisa, Italy, December 12-14, 2005, Revised Selected Papers 9. Springer, 235–245.   
[12] Edgar Chávez, Verónica Luduena, Nora Reyes, and Patricia Roggero. 2014. Faster Proximity Searching with the Distal SAT. In Similarity Search and Applications: 7th International Conference, SISAP 2014, Los Cabos, Mexico, October 29-31, 2104, Proceedings, Vol. 8821. Springer, 58.   
[13] Edgar Chávez, Verónica Luduena, Nora Reyes, and Patricia Roggero. 2016. Faster proximity searching with the distal SAT. Information Systems 59 (2016), 15–47.   
[14] Edgar Chávez and Gonzalo Navarro. 2003. Probabilistic proximity search: Fighting the curse of dimensionality in metric spaces. Inform. Process. Lett. 85, 1 (2003), 39–46.   
[15] Lu Chen, Yunjun Gao, Xinhan Li, Christian S Jensen, and Gang Chen. 2015. Efficient metric indexing for similarity search and similarity joins. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 29, 3 (2015), 556–571.   
[16] Lu Chen, Yunjun Gao, Xuan Song, Zheng Li, Yifan Zhu, Xiaoye Miao, and Christian S Jensen. 2022. Indexing metric spaces for exact similarity search. Comput. Surveys 55, 6 (2022), 1–39.   
[17] Qi Chen, Haidong Wang, Mingqin Li, Gang Ren, Scarlett Li, Jeffery Zhu, Jason Li, Chuanjie Liu, Lintao Zhang, and Jingdong Wang. 2018. SPTAG: A library for fast approximate nearest neighbor search. https://github.com/Microsoft/SPTAG   
[18] Qi Chen, Bing Zhao, Haidong Wang, Mingqin Li, Chuanjie Liu, Zengzhong Li, Mao Yang, and Jingdong Wang. 2021. Spann: Highly-efficient billion-scale approximate nearest neighborhood search. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 34 (2021), 5199–5212.

[19] Paolo Ciaccia and Marco Patella. 1998. Bulk loading the M-tree. In Proceedings of the 9th Australasian Database Conference (ADC’98). Citeseer, 15–26.   
[20] Paolo Ciaccia and Marco Patella. 2001. Approximate similarity queries: A survey. University of Bolognia: Bologna, Italy (2001).   
[21] Paolo Ciaccia, Marco Patella, and Pavel Zezula. 1997. M-tree: An Efficient Access Method for Similarity Search in Metric Spaces. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB ’97). Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA, 426–435.   
[22] Kenneth L Clarkson. 1997. Nearest neighbor queries in metric spaces. In Proceedings of the twenty-ninth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing. 609–617.   
[23] Mayur Datar, Nicole Immorlica, Piotr Indyk, and Vahab S Mirrokni. 2004. Localitysensitive hashing scheme based on p-stable distributions. In Proceedings of the twentieth annual symposium on Computational geometry. 253–262.   
[24] Mark De Berg. 2000. Computational geometry: algorithms and applications. Springer Science & Business Media.   
[25] FKHA Dehne and Hartmut Noltemeier. 1987. Voronoi trees and clustering problems. Information Systems 12, 2 (1987), 171–175.   
[26] Magdalen Dobson, Zheqi Shen, Guy E Blelloch, Laxman Dhulipala, Yan Gu, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri, and Yihan Sun. 2023. Scaling Graph-Based ANNS Algorithms to Billion-Size Datasets: A Comparative Analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.04359 (2023).   
[27] Matthijs Douze, Alexandr Guzhva, Chengqi Deng, Jeff Johnson, Gergely Szilvasy, Pierre-Emmanuel Mazaré, Maria Lomeli, Lucas Hosseini, and Hervé Jégou. 2024. The Faiss library. (2024). arXiv:2401.08281 [cs.LG]   
[28] Karima Echihabi, Kostas Zoumpatianos, and Themis Palpanas. 2021. New Trends in High-D Vector Similarity Search: Al-Driven, Progressive, and Distributed. Proc. VLDB Endow. 14, 12 (jul 2021), 3198–3201. https://doi.org/10.14778/3476311. 3476407   
[29] Joshua Engels, Benjamin Landrum, Shangdi Yu, Laxman Dhulipala, and Julian Shun. 2024. Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search with Window Filters. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.00943 (2024).   
[30] Christos Faloutsos and King-Ip Lin. 1995. FastMap: A fast algorithm for indexing, data-mining and visualization of traditional and multimedia datasets. In Proceedings of the 1995 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data. 163–174.   
[31] Hakan Ferhatosmanoglu, Ioanna Stanoi, Divyakant Agrawal, and Amr El Abbadi. 2001. Constrained nearest neighbor queries. In International Symposium on Spatial and Temporal Databases. Springer, 257–276.   
[32] Omar U Florez and SeungJin Lim. 2008. HRG: A graph structure for fast similarity search in metric spaces. In Database and Expert Systems Applications: 19th International Conference, DEXA 2008, Turin, Italy, September 1-5, 2008. Proceedings 19. Springer, 57–64.   
[33] Cole Foster, Berk Sevilmis, and Benjamin Kimia. 2022. Generalized Relative Neighborhood Graph (GRNG) for Similarity Search. In International Conference on Similarity Search and Applications. Springer, 133–149.   
[34] Cong Fu and Deng Cai. 2016. Efanna: An extremely fast approximate nearest neighbor search algorithm based on knn graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.07228 (2016).   
[35] Cong Fu, Changxu Wang, and Deng Cai. 2022. High Dimensional Similarity Search With Satellite System Graph: Efficiency, Scalability, and Unindexed Query Compatibility. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 44, 8 (2022), 4139–4150. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2021.3067706   
[36] Cong Fu, Chao Xiang, Changxu Wang, and Deng Cai. 2017. Fast approximate nearest neighbor search with the navigating spreading-out graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.00143 (2017).   
[37] Junhao Gan, Jianlin Feng, Qiong Fang, and Wilfred Ng. 2012. Locality-sensitive hashing scheme based on dynamic collision counting. In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM SIGMOD international conference on management of data. 541–552.   
[38] Jianyang Gao and Cheng Long. 2023. High-dimensional approximate nearest neighbor search: with reliable and efficient distance comparison operations. Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data 1, 2 (2023), 1–27.   
[39] Jianyang Gao and Cheng Long. 2024. RaBitQ: Quantizing High-Dimensional Vectors with a Theoretical Error Bound for Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search. Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data 2, 3 (2024), 1–27.   
[40] Tiezheng Ge, Kaiming He, Qifa Ke, and Jian Sun. 2013. Optimized product quantization. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 36, 4 (2013), 744–755.   
[41] Siddharth Gollapudi, Neel Karia, Varun Sivashankar, Ravishankar Krishnaswamy, Nikit Begwani, Swapnil Raz, Yiyong Lin, Yin Zhang, Neelam Mahapatro, Premkumar Srinivasan, et al. 2023. Filtered-diskann: Graph algorithms for approximate nearest neighbor search with filters. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023. 3406–3416.   
[42] Yan Gu, Zachary Napier, Yihan Sun, and Letong Wang. 2022. Parallel cover trees and their applications. In Proceedings of the 34th ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures. 259–272.   
[43] Ruiqi Guo, Philip Sun, Erik Lindgren, Quan Geng, David Simcha, Felix Chern, and Sanjiv Kumar. 2020. Accelerating large-scale inference with anisotropic vector

quantization. In International Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 3887–3896.   
[44] Gaurav Gupta, Jonah Yi, Benjamin Coleman, Chen Luo, Vihan Lakshman, and Anshumali Shrivastava. 2023. CAPS: A Practical Partition Index for Filtered Similarity Search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.15014 (2023).   
[45] Ben Harwood and Tom Drummond. 2016. Fanng: Fast approximate nearest neighbour graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 5713–5722.   
[46] Gisli R Hjaltason and Hanan Samet. 2003. Index-driven similarity search in metric spaces (survey article). ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) 28, 4 (2003), 517–580.   
[47] Qiang Huang, Jianlin Feng, Yikai Zhang, Qiong Fang, and Wilfred Ng. 2015. Query-aware locality-sensitive hashing for approximate nearest neighbor search. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 9, 1 (2015), 1–12.   
[48] Piotr Indyk and Rajeev Motwani. 1998. Approximate nearest neighbors: towards removing the curse of dimensionality. In Proceedings of the thirtieth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing. 604–613.   
[49] Piotr Indyk and Haike Xu. 2023. Worst-case Performance of Popular Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search Implementations: Guarantees and Limitations. In Thirtyseventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems. https://openreview. net/forum?id=oKqaWlEfjY   
[50] Masajiro Iwasaki. 2016. Pruned bi-directed k-nearest neighbor graph for proximity search. In International Conference on Similarity Search and Applications. Springer, 20–33.   
[51] Suhas Jayaram Subramanya, Fnu Devvrit, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri, Ravishankar Krishnawamy, and Rohan Kadekodi. 2019. Diskann: Fast accurate billion-point nearest neighbor search on a single node. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32 (2019).   
[52] Herve Jegou, Matthijs Douze, and Cordelia Schmid. 2010. Product quantization for nearest neighbor search. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 33, 1 (2010), 117–128.   
[53] Iraj Kalantari and Gerard McDonald. 1983. A data structure and an algorithm for the nearest point problem. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 5 (1983), 631–634.   
[54] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33 (2020), 9459–9474.   
[55] Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Chuanghua Gui, Jianyu Chen, Zhenyuan Ni, Ning Wang, and Yuan Chen. 2018. The design and implementation of a real time visual search system on JD E-commerce platform. In Proceedings of the 19th International Middleware Conference Industry. 9–16.   
[56] Wen Li, Ying Zhang, Yifang Sun, Wei Wang, Mingjie Li, Wenjie Zhang, and Xuemin Lin. 2019. Approximate nearest neighbor search on high dimensional data—experiments, analyses, and improvement. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 32, 8 (2019), 1475–1488.   
[57] Ying Liu, Dengsheng Zhang, Guojun Lu, and Wei-Ying Ma. 2007. A survey of content-based image retrieval with high-level semantics. Pattern recognition 40, 1 (2007), 262–282.   
[58] Yury Malkov, Alexander Ponomarenko, Andrey Logvinov, and Vladimir Krylov. 2014. Approximate nearest neighbor algorithm based on navigable small world graphs. Information Systems 45 (2014), 61–68.   
[59] Yu A Malkov and Dmitry A Yashunin. 2018. Efficient and robust approximate nearest neighbor search using hierarchical navigable small world graphs. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 42, 4 (2018), 824–836.   
[60] Yusuke Matsui, Ryota Hinami, and Shin’ichi Satoh. 2018. Reconfigurable Inverted Index. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM international conference on Multimedia. 1715–1723.   
[61] Microsoft. 2024. https://github.com/microsoft/DiskANN.   
[62] Jason Mohoney, Anil Pacaci, Shihabur Rahman Chowdhury, Ali Mousavi, Ihab F Ilyas, Umar Farooq Minhas, Jeffrey Pound, and Theodoros Rekatsinas. 2023. High-Throughput Vector Similarity Search in Knowledge Graphs. Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data 1, 2 (2023), 1–25.   
[63] Juraj Moško, Jakub Lokoč, and Tomáš Skopal. 2011. Clustered pivot tables for I/Ooptimized similarity search. In Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on SImilarity Search and APplications. 17–24.   
[64] Gonzalo Navarro. 2002. Searching in metric spaces by spatial approximation. The VLDB Journal 11 (2002), 28–46.   
[65] Liana Patel, Peter Kraft, Carlos Guestrin, and Matei Zaharia. 2024. ACORN: Performant and Predicate-Agnostic Search Over Vector Embeddings and Structured Data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.04871 (2024).   
[66] Marco Patella and Paolo Ciaccia. 2008. The many facets of approximate similarity search. In First International Workshop on Similarity Search and Applications (sisap 2008). IEEE, 10–21.   
[67] Marco Patella and Paolo Ciaccia. 2009. Approximate similarity search: A multifaceted problem. Journal of Discrete Algorithms 7, 1 (2009), 36–48.   
[68] Jianbin Qin, Wei Wang, Chuan Xiao, Ying Zhang, and Yaoshu Wang. 2021. High-Dimensional Similarity Query Processing for Data Science. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (Virtual

Event, Singapore) (KDD ’21). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 4062–4063. https://doi.org/10.1145/3447548.3470811   
[69] Aviad Rubinstein. 2018. Hardness of approximate nearest neighbor search. In Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on Theory of Computing (Los Angeles, CA, USA) (STOC 2018). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1260–1268. https://doi.org/10.1145/3188745.3188916   
[70] Enrique Vidal Ruiz. 1986. An algorithm for finding nearest neighbours in (approximately) constant average time. Pattern Recognition Letters 4, 3 (1986), 145–157.   
[71] Yifang Sun, Wei Wang, Jianbin Qin, Ying Zhang, and Xuemin Lin. 2014. SRS: solving c-approximate nearest neighbor queries in high dimensional euclidean space with a tiny index. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (2014).   
[72] Yufei Tao, Ke Yi, Cheng Sheng, and Panos Kalnis. 2010. Efficient and accurate nearest neighbor and closest pair search in high-dimensional space. ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) 35, 3 (2010), 1–46.   
[73] Godfried T Toussaint. 1980. The relative neighbourhood graph of a finite planar set. Pattern recognition 12, 4 (1980), 261–268.   
[74] Jeffrey K Uhlmann. 1991. Satisfying general proximity/similarity queries with metric trees. Information processing letters 40, 4 (1991), 175–179.   
[75] Jianguo Wang, Xiaomeng Yi, Rentong Guo, Hai Jin, Peng Xu, Shengjun Li, Xiangyu Wang, Xiangzhou Guo, Chengming Li, Xiaohai Xu, et al. 2021. Milvus: A purpose-built vector data management system. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Management of Data. 2614–2627.   
[76] Jason Tsong-Li Wang, Xiong Wang, Dennis Shasha, and Kaizhong Zhang. 2005. Metricmap: an embedding technique for processing distance-based queries in metric spaces. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part B (Cybernetics) 35, 5 (2005), 973–987.   
[77] Mengzhao Wang, Lingwei Lv, Xiaoliang Xu, Yuxiang Wang, Qiang Yue, and Jiongkang Ni. 2024. An efficient and robust framework for approximate nearest neighbor search with attribute constraint. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2024).   
[78] Mengzhao Wang, Xiaoliang Xu, Qiang Yue, and Yuxiang Wang. 2021. A Comprehensive Survey and Experimental Comparison of Graph-Based Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search. Proc. VLDB Endow. 14, 11 (2021), 1964–1978. http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol14/p1964-wang.pdf   
[79] Yifan Wang. 2022. A Survey on Efficient Processing of Similarity Queries over Neural Embeddings. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.07922 (2022).   
[80] Zeyu Wang, Peng Wang, Themis Palpanas, and Wei Wang. 2023. Graph-and Tree-based Indexes for High-dimensional Vector Similarity Search: Analyses, Comparisons, and Future Directions. Data Engineering (2023), 3–21.   
[81] Chuangxian Wei, Bin Wu, Sheng Wang, Renjie Lou, Chaoqun Zhan, Feifei Li, and Yuanzhe Cai. 2020. Analyticdb-v: A hybrid analytical engine towards query fusion for structured and unstructured data. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 13, 12 (2020), 3152–3165.   
[82] Wei Wu, Junlin He, Yu Qiao, Guoheng Fu, Li Liu, and Jin Yu. 2022. HQANN: Efficient and robust similarity search for hybrid queries with structured and unstructured constraints. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management. 4580–4584.   
[83] Yuexuan Xu, Jianyang Gao, Yutong Gou, Cheng Long, and Christian S. Jensen. 2025. iRangeGraph: Improvising Range-dedicated Graphs for Range-filtering Nearest Neighbor Search (Technical Report). https://github.com/YuexuanXu7/ iRangeGraph.   
[84] Peter N Yianilos. 1993. Data structures and algorithms for nearest neighbor search in general metric spaces. In Soda, Vol. 93. 311–21.   
[85] Pavel Zezula, Pasquale Savino, Giuseppe Amato, and Fausto Rabitti. 1998. Approximate similarity retrieval with M-trees. The VLDB Journal 7, 4 (1998), 275–293.   
[86] Qianxi Zhang, Shuotao Xu, Qi Chen, Guoxin Sui, Jiadong Xie, Zhizhen Cai, Yaoqi Chen, Yinxuan He, Yuqing Yang, Fan Yang, Mao Yang, and Lidong Zhou. 2023. VBASE: Unifying Online Vector Similarity Search and Relational Queries via Relaxed Monotonicity. In 17th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 23). USENIX Association, Boston, MA, 377–395. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi23/presentation/zhang-qianxi   
[87] Weijie Zhao, Shulong Tan, and Ping Li. 2022. Constrained Approximate Similarity Search on Proximity Graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.14958 (2022).   
[88] Yifan Zhu, Lu Chen, Yunjun Gao, and Christian S Jensen. 2022. Pivot selection algorithms in metric spaces: a survey and experimental study. The VLDB Journal 31, 1 (2022), 23–47.   
[89] Chaoji Zuo, Miao Qiao, Wenchao Zhou, Feifei Li, and Dong Deng. 2024. SeRF: Segment Graph for Range-Filtering Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search. Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data 2, 1 (2024), 1–26.
